## # `Intermediate Language (IL) & Common Language Runtime (CLR)` -

- CLR, Known as the heart of .NET Framework
- Can be thought as a `Virtual Execution System` having unified set of class libraries
- It runs code and provides services that make the execution process easier
- It is not an interpreter, rather it perform `Just-In Time (JIT)` Compilation
- During Compilation, ==Source code written in .NET languages (C# etc), are compiled to Common Intermediate Language (CIL)==
- After compilation, these ==IL code & resources are stored in executable file called assembly (exe or DLL)==
- During Execution, the assembly is loaded into CLR, ==CLR performs the compilation to convert the IL code to Machine Instructions.== 

==Applications and libraries written in C/C++ compile to machine code, and are examples of unmanaged code==.  Programmers must manage aspects like memory management manually - e.g. whenever they allocate memory, they must remember to free it.  In contrast, ==managed code runs on a CLR, or Common Language Runtime==.  Languages such as C# compile to an Intermediate Language (IL) which the CLR later converts to machine code during runtime.  The CLR also handles aspects like garbage collection and various runtime checking, hence the name managed code.

## # `Why Platform Invoke(P/Invoke)?` -

Platform Invoke (P/Invoke) allows us to access structs and functions present in unmanaged libraries from our managed code.

The .NET runtime already utilises P/Invoke under the hood, and provides us with abstractions that run on top.  For instance, to start a process in .NET we can use the `Start` method in the `System.Diagnostics.Process` class.  If we trace this method in the runtime, we'll see that it uses P/Invoke to call the CreateProcess API.  However, it doesn't provide a mean that allows us to customise the data being passed into the STARTUPINFO struct; and this prevents us from being able to do things like start the process in a suspended state.

There are other WinAPIs that are useful for us (such as VirtualAllocEx, WriteProcessMemory, CreateRemoteThread, etc) that are not exposed at all in .NET; and the only way we can access them is to P/Invoke manually within our code.

Other languages that support P/Invoke also open a wealth of opportunity for attackers.  For instance, ==we can use P/Invoke in VBA which lends a certain potency to malicious Office documents==.

We can get the function signature directly from resource such as [pinvoke.net](http://pinvoke.net/default.aspx/user32/MessageBox.html).

## # `Type Marshalling` -

==Marshalling is the process of transforming a data type when it needs to cross between managed and unmanaged code==.  By default, the P/Invoke subsystem tries to automatically marshal data for you, but there may be situations where you need to marshal it manually.

For example if we call `MessageBoxW` in C#, which takes two `string` parameters, and we know these needed to be Unicode (LPCWSTR). If we needed to marshal them manually, we would add the `MarshalAs` attribute to the parameters.  That would look something like this:

```c#
[DllImport("user32.dll")]
static extern int MessageBoxW(
    IntPtr hWnd,
    [MarshalAs(UnmanagedType.LPWStr)] string lpText,
    [MarshalAs(UnmanagedType.LPWStr)] string lpCaption,
    uint uType);
```

[This page](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/interop/marshaling-data-with-platform-invoke) contains a useful table of managed and unmanaged data type mappings.  Note that P/Invoke handles 99% of cases without issue - this information is more relevant when accessing native APIs without P/Invoke (e.g. D/Invoke).

## # `MessageBox` -

1. Importing DLL :

```csharp
using System;
using System.Runtime.InteropServices;

public class Program
{
[DllImport("user32.dll", CharSet = CharSet.Unicode, SetLastError = true)]
...
} 
```

In the above code, we are importing the DLL `user32` using the attribute: `DLLImport`.

2. Creating the external method :

```csharp
using System;
using System.Runtime.InteropServices;

public class Program
{
...
public static extern int MessageBox(IntPtr hWnd, string lpText, string lpCaption, uint uType);
} 
```

3. Calling MessageBox :

```csharp
using System;
using System.Runtime.InteropServices;

public class Program
{
    // Import user32.dll (containing the function we need) and define
    // the method corresponding to the native function.

    [DllImport("user32.dll", CharSet = CharSet.Unicode, SetLastError = true)]
    public static extern int MessageBox(IntPtr hWnd, String lpText, String lpcaption, uint uType);

    public static void Main(string[] args)
    {
        // Invoke the function as a regular managed method.

        MessageBox(IntPtr.Zero, "Command-line message box", "Attention!", 0);
    }
}
```