## # `What is a Windows Process?` -

A Windows process is a program or application that is running on a Windows machine. A process can be started by either a user or by the system itself. The process consumes resources such as memory, disk space, and processor time to complete a task.

## # `Process Environment Block` -

For every process, the Windows OS creates a structure called the Process Environment Block (PEB). This data structure contains information about process including the list of the modules (DLLs) that have been loaded or mapped into the process's memory. ==The FS register contains the address of the data structure called the Thread Information Block (TIB)==, which contains information about the currently running thread. ==A pointer to the PEB resides within the TIB at the offset 0x30== (in hex), with respect to the beginning of the TIB. Therefore, ==a pointer to PEB is always located at FS:[0x30]==. This syntax directs the processor to look for the address stored 0x30 bytes away from the beginning of the TIB data structure.

32 bit -

```c
mov eax, fs:[0x30]
```

64 bit -

```c
mov rax, gs:[60h]   ; Get the PEB pointer from the GS segment base address
```

---

The Process Environment Block (PEB) is a data structure in Windows that ==contains information about a process such as its parameters, startup information, allocated heap information, and loaded DLLs==, in addition to others. It is used by the operating system to store information about processes as they are running, and is used by the Windows loader to launch applications. It also stores information about the process such as the process ID (PID) and the path to the executable.

==Every process created has its own PEB data structure==, that will contain its own set of information about it.

#### <mark style="background: #3D7EFFA6;">PEB Structure</mark> -

The PEB struct is shown below. The reserved members of this struct can be ignored.

```c++
typedef struct _PEB {
  BYTE                          Reserved1[2];
  BYTE                          BeingDebugged;
  BYTE                          Reserved2[1];
  PVOID                         Reserved3[2];
  PPEB_LDR_DATA                 Ldr;
  PRTL_USER_PROCESS_PARAMETERS  ProcessParameters;
  PVOID                         Reserved4[3];
  PVOID                         AtlThunkSListPtr;
  PVOID                         Reserved5;
  ULONG                         Reserved6;
  PVOID                         Reserved7;
  ULONG                         Reserved8;
  ULONG                         AtlThunkSListPtr32;
  PVOID                         Reserved9[45];
  BYTE                          Reserved10[96];
  PPS_POST_PROCESS_INIT_ROUTINE PostProcessInitRoutine;
  BYTE                          Reserved11[128];
  PVOID                         Reserved12[1];
  ULONG                         SessionId;
} PEB, *PPEB;
```


-  <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">BeingDebugged</mark> - BeingDebugged is a flag in the PEB structure that indicates whether the process is being debugged or not. It is set to 1 (TRUE) when the process is being debugged and 0 (FALSE) when it is not. It is used by the Windows loader to determine whether to launch the application with a debugger attached or not.

- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">Ldr</mark> - Ldr is a pointer to a `PEB_LDR_DATA` structure in the Process Environment Block (PEB). This structure contains information about the process's loaded dynamic link library (DLL) modules. It includes a list of the DLLs loaded in the process, the base address of each DLL, and the size of each module. It is used by the Windows loader to keep track of DLLs loaded in the process. The `PEB_LDR_DATA` struct is shown below -

```c++
typedef struct _PEB_LDR_DATA {
  BYTE       Reserved1[8];
  PVOID      Reserved2[3];
  LIST_ENTRY InMemoryOrderModuleList;
} PEB_LDR_DATA, *PPEB_LDR_DATA;
```

`Ldr` can be leveraged to find the base address of a particular DLL, as well as which functions reside within its memory space.

- <mark style="background: #E632B3A6;">ProcessParameters</mark> - ProcessParameters is a data structure in the PEB. It contains the command line parameters passed to the process when created. The Windows loader adds these parameters to the process's PEB structure. ProcessParameters is a pointer to the `RTL_USER_PROCESS_PARAMETERS` struct that's shown below -

```c++
typedef struct _RTL_USER_PROCESS_PARAMETERS {
  BYTE           Reserved1[16];
  PVOID          Reserved2[10];
  UNICODE_STRING ImagePathName;
  UNICODE_STRING CommandLine;
} RTL_USER_PROCESS_PARAMETERS, *PRTL_USER_PROCESS_PARAMETERS;
```


- <mark style="background: #07E997A6;">AtlThunkSListPtr & AtlThunkSListPtr32</mark> - `AtlThunkSListPtr` and `AtlThunkSListPtr32` are used by the ATL (Active Template Library) module to store a pointer to a linked list of _thunking functions_. Thunking functions are used to call functions that are implemented in a different address space, these often represent functions exported from a DLL (Dynamic Link Library) file. The linked list of thunking functions is used by the ATL module to manage the thunking process.

- <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">PostProcessInitRoutine</mark> - The `PostProcessInitRoutine` field in the PEB structure is used to store a pointer to a function that is called by the operating system after TLS (Thread Local Storage) initialization has been completed for all threads in the process. This function can be used to perform any additional initialization tasks that are required for the process.

- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">SessionId</mark> - The SessionID in the PEB is a unique identifier assigned to a single session. It is used to track the activity of the user during the session.
