## # `Process Threads` -

Windows processes are made up of one or more threads that are all running concurrently. A thread is a set of instructions that can be executed independently within a process. Threads within a process can communicate and share data. Threads are scheduled for execution by the operating system and managed in the context of a process.

## # `Thread Environment Block` -

Thread Environment Block (TEB) is a data structure in Windows that stores information about a thread. It contains the thread's environment, security context, and other related information. It is stored in the thread's stack and is used by the Windows kernel to manage threads.

#### <mark style="background: #3D7EFFA6;">TEB Structure</mark> -

The TEB struct is shown below. The reserved members of this struct can be ignored -

```c++
typedef struct _TEB {
  PVOID Reserved1[12];
  PPEB  ProcessEnvironmentBlock;
  PVOID Reserved2[399];
  BYTE  Reserved3[1952];
  PVOID TlsSlots[64];
  BYTE  Reserved4[8];
  PVOID Reserved5[26];
  PVOID ReservedForOle;
  PVOID Reserved6[4];
  PVOID TlsExpansionSlots;
} TEB, *PTEB;
```


- <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">ProcessEnvironmentBlock (PEB)</mark> - Is a pointer to the PEB structure. PEB is located inside the Thread Environment Block (TEB) and is used to store information about the currently running process.

- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">TlsSlots</mark> - The TLS (Thread Local Storage) Slots are locations in the TEB that are used to store thread-specific data. Each thread in Windows has its own TEB, and each TEB has a set of TLS slots. Applications can use these slots to store data that is specific to that thread, such as thread-specific variables, thread-specific handles, thread-specific states, and so on.

- <mark style="background: #E632B3A6;">TlsExpansionSlots</mark> - The TLS Expansion Slots in the TEB are a set of pointers used to store thread-local storage data for a thread. The TLS Expansion Slots are reserved for use by system DLLs.

## # `Process And Thread Handles` -

On the Windows operating system, each process has a distinct process identifier or process ID (PID) which the operating system assigns when the process is created. PIDs are used to distinguish one running process from another. The same concept applies to a running thread, where a running thread has a unique ID that is used to differentiate it from the rest of the existing threads (in any process) on the system.

These identifiers can be used to open a handle to a process or a thread using the WinAPIs below.

- [OpenProcess](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/api/processthreadsapi/nf-processthreadsapi-openprocess) - Opens an existing process object handle via its identifier.

- [OpenThread](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/api/processthreadsapi/nf-processthreadsapi-openthread) - Opens an existing thread object handle via its identifier.

The opened handle can be used to perform further actions to its relative Windows object, such as suspending a process or thread.

Handles should always be closed once their use is no longer required to avoid [handle leaking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Handle_leak). This is achieved via the [CloseHandle](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/api/handleapi/nf-handleapi-closehandle) WinAPI call.
`
