## # `Windows On Windows(WOW)` -

Most Windows-based machines use the 64-bit version of the Windows operating system. However, many applications are still 32-bit.To facilitate this, Microsoft introduced the concept of `Windows On Windows 64-bit(WOW64)` which allows a 64-bit version of Windows to execute 32-bit applications with almost no loss of efficiency

WOW64 utilizes four 64-bit libraries `(Ntdll.dll, Wow64.dll, Wow64Win.dll and Wow64Cpu.dll)` to emulate the execution of 32-bit code and perform translations between the application and the kernel.

On 32-bit versions of Windows, most native Windows applications and libraries are stored in C:\Windows\System32. On 64-bit versions of Windows, 64-bit native programs and DLLs are stored in C:\Windows\System32 and 32-bit versions are stored in C:\Windows\SysWOW64.

---

## # `Windows Registry` -

The registry is effectively a database that consists of a massive number of keys with associated values. These keys are sorted hierarchically using subkeys.

At the root, multiple registry hives contain logical divisions of registry keys. Information related to the `current user` is stored in the `HKEY_CURRENT_USER (HKCU) hive`, while information related to the `operating system` itself is stored in the `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE (HKLM) hive`.

The ==HKEY_CURRENT_USER hive is writable by the current user== while modification of the ==HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE hive requires administrative privileges==.

---

## # `Nt and Zw` -

In Windows operating systems, both Nt and Zw are prefixes used for Windows Native API functions. Nt stands for "==Native API==" while Zw stands for "==Zero Window==."

The difference between these two is that the ==Zw functions are used by the operating system internally== while the ==Nt functions are used by user-mode applications==.

The Zw functions are essentially wrappers around the Nt functions. When a user-mode application calls a Zw function, the Zw function translates the user-mode call into an Nt system call that the operating system can understand.

In practice, both Nt and Zw functions are used interchangeably, and they perform the same functionality.

[Kernel Read](http://blog.deniable.org/posts/windows-callbacks/)

---

