## # `Disassembler View` -

1. <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">First column graph</mark> 

2. <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">Second column Memory Addresses</mark>

3. <mark style="background: #E632B3A6;">Third column OPCODES</mark>

4. <mark style="background: #07E997A6;">Fourth column Assembly</mark>

5. <mark style="background: #3D7EFFA6;">Fifth column strings/comments</mark>

## # `Shortcuts` -

- F9 - Run
-  F8  - Step Over
-  F7 - Step Into a Call
- Ctrl F9  : Execute till Return
- Alt  F9  : Run to User Code
- F2/Double Click : Set BreakPoint
- Ctrl+F8 : Will simulate pressing F8 until program hits running state.

[x64dbg settings]
uncheck TLS callbacks
ignore Exceptions

## # `Reverse Jumps(ZF)` -

Jump will take place or not depends upon the ==Zero Flag(ZF)==.If the value of ==ZF is 1 the Jump will take place==.You can change the value of ZF by double clicking on it either from 0 to 1 or vice-versa.

The change of value from 1 to 0(no jump) is not permanent that is if you re-run the program the value will change to its original value or revert back to its original state.

cmp or test will set the ZF flag


## # `Assembling` -

Assembling means modifying or maupulating the instructions.You can double click or use space bar on any instruction,that will pop up the assembly box where you can change the instructions.

Always remember to check the Keep Size and Fill with Nop's.Make sure you ==prefix your address with 0x== representing hexadecimal value

==Modified Instructions should not take more space than the instruction you are changing==.

## # `No Operation` -

Nop or No operation simply does nothing,==indicated by 90==.

You can click on Spacebar or double click on any instruction and substitute it with nop.

## # `Jump` -

As the name suggests it is used to jump to the specified insructions.However there are different types of Jumps -

- <mark style="background: #3D7EFFA6;">jmp</mark> - this is an unconditional jump that means it will take place no matter what.

- <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">jne(jump not equal)</mark> - jump when ZF not equal to 1.

- <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">je(jump equal)</mark> - jump when ZF is equal to 1.

- <mark style="background: #E632B3A6;">Jl(jump less than)</mark> - compares two values and if the first value is less than the second the jump will be taken.

==Near every jump instruction there will be a cmp or test.==


## # `Pushing Parameters to the stack` -

==The push is reverse of any given function for example== -

MessageBox which is a windows api takes 4 parameter and has structure like below -
[MessageBox](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/api/winuser/nf-winuser-messagebox)


--- MessageBox ---

push 0                              [ Button Type ]
push "Hii!"       		    [ Caption ]
push "Hii from Napster" [ Text ]
push 0                 		    [ Parent Window ]
call MessageBox

==The stack is reverse of the push,the stack grows from bottom up==.

--- Stack ---

0
Hii from Napster
Hii!
0


## # `Search for String` -

You can search for specific string displayed by your application using dbg.

Right Click-->Search for-->Current Module-->String references


## # `Saving space` -

Note:
   eax = 4 bytes  
   al =  1 byte:

Using this:
   mov al,0

will set eax to FFFFFF00

Better way is:
   xor eax,eax

which sets eax to 00000000

## # `Intermodular Calls` -

These are all the calls made from the user space.You can view intermodular calls -

==Right Click-->Current Module-->Intermodular calls==

The list generally contains windows api function calls.You can double click on any function or right click-->follow in disassembler to go straight to the call/address.

You can also put breakpoint using F2

## # `Call Stack` -

More like back tracing.Just pause before the application exits and go to call stack.

The presented list is sorted in reverse order.The earliest calls are at the bottom of the list while the most recent calls are at the top.

You can search for the last call made from userland and follow it.


## # `Software Breakpoint` -

Software Breakpoints are breakpoints on instructions.


## # `Hardware/RAM Breakpoints` -

Hardware Breakpoints are breakpoints on memory addresses.It means  we set a breakpoint on a location which is in the RAM memory itself so we can keep track of which process or which instruction is accessing those RAM memory locations.
Hardware Breakpoint allow us to modify data in RAM memory addresses directly


Example -

- cmp dword ptr ds:[7260D0],0

Select the instruction-->follow in dump-->Address: 007260D0

Right Click on the address-->Binary-->Edit

Change the value in Hex box from 00 to 01 ; check the Keep Size then OK

Now the comparision will be done b/w 0 and 1 and since they are different the ZF flag will set to 0 

## # `Examples/Snippets` -

- xor eax, eax

will sets eax to 00000000

- test eax, eax

is to test whether eax is equal to 0, If yes, then it will set ZF=1

- sub eax, ecx

means eax-ecx ; then stores the result back into eax  

- cmp dword ptr ds:[7260D0],0

the data stored at memory address 7260D0 is being compared to 0, If yes(i.e if its 0) ZF will become 1.

